Calcutta | On the 20th of July, 1866, the steamer _Governor Higginson_, of the Calcutta and Burnach Steam Navigation Company, had met this moving mass five miles off the east coast of Australia.
Captain | Captain Baker thought at first that Captain Baker was in the presence of an unknown sandbank; Captain Baker even prepared to determine he was in the presence of an unknown sandbank exact position, when two columns of water, projected by the inexplicable object, shot with a hissing noise a hundred and fifty feet up into the air.
March | On the 5th of March, 1867, the _Moravian_, of the Montreal Ocean Company, finding herself during the night in 27° 30′ lat and 72° 15′ long, struck on herself starboard quarter a rock, marked in no chart for that part of the sea.
Company | The 13th of April, 1867, the sea being beautiful, the breeze favourable, the _Scotia_, of the Cunard Company’s line, found herself in 15° 12′ long and 45° 37′ lat herself was going at the speed of thirteen knots and a half.
Cape Clear | the _Scotia_ was then three hundred miles from Cape Clear, and after three days’ delay, which caused great uneasiness in Liverpool, the _Scotia_ entered the basin of the company.
Nebraska | CHAPTER II PRO AND CON   At the period when these events took place, I had just returned from a scientific research in the disagreeable territory of Nebraska, in the United States.
Nebraska | After six months in Nebraska, I arrived in New York towards the end of March, laden with a precious collection.
France | After inquiries made in England, France, Russia, Prussia, Spain, Italy, and America, even in Turkey, the hypothesis of a submarine monitor was definitely rejected.
New York | The United States were the first in the field; and in New York The United States made preparations for an expedition destined to pursue this narwhal.
North | Impatience grew apace, when, on the 2nd of July, they learned that a steamer of the line of San Francisco, from California to Shanghai, had seen the animal three weeks before in the North Pacific Ocean.
Flemish | I liked my servant, a true, devoted Flemish boy, who had accompanied me in all my travels, and my servant, a true, devoted Flemish boy, who had accompanied me in all my travels returned the liking well.
Flemish | my servant, a true, devoted Flemish boy, who had accompanied me in all my travels was phlegmatic by nature, regular from principle, zealous from habit, evincing little disturbance at the different surprises of life, very quick with my servant, a true, devoted Flemish boy, who had accompanied me in all my travels hands, and apt at any service required of my servant, a true, devoted Flemish boy, who had accompanied me in all my travels; and, despite my servant, a true, devoted Flemish boy, who had accompanied me in all my travels name, never giving advice—even when asked for his name.
Aronnax | “Monsieur Pierre Aronnax?” said “Monsieur Pierre Aronnax.
Aronnax | ““Monsieur Pierre Aronnax,” replied I; “Commander Farragut?”  “You are welcome, Professor; your cabin is ready for you.”  I bowed, and desired to be conducted to your cabin destined for myself.
New York | The quay of Brooklyn, and all that part of New York bordering on the East River, was crowded with spectators.
San | the _Abraham Lincoln_ answered by hoisting the American colours three times, whose thirty-nine stars shone resplendent from the mizzen-peak; then modifying its speed to take the narrow channel marked by buoys placed in the inner bay formed by Sandy Hook Point, its coasted the long sandy beach, where some thousands of spectators gave its one final cheer.
New Jersey | The escort of boats and tenders still followed Then the frigate, following the coast of New Jersey along the right bank of the beautiful river, covered with villas, passed between the forts, which saluted her with their heaviest guns, and did not leave she until The escort of boats and tenders came abreast of the lightship, whose two lights marked the entrance of New York Channel.
Long Island | Six bells struck, the pilot got into the pilot boat, and rejoined the little schooner which was waiting under our lee, the fires were made up, the screw beat the waves more rapidly, the frigate skirted the low yellow coast of Long Island; and at eight bells, after having lost sight in the north-west of the lights of Fire Island, her ran at full steam on to the dark waters of the Atlantic.
Captain | Captain Farragut vessel and Captain Farragut were one.
Rabelais | It was an opportunity for His person to talk, and for me to hear, that old language of Rabelais, which is still in use in some Canadian provinces.
Cape Blanc | One magnificent evening, the 30th of July—that is to say, three weeks after our departure—the frigate was abreast of Cape Blanc, thirty miles to leeward of the coast of Patagonia.
Ned | Seated on the poop, Ned Land and I were chatting of one thing and another as our looked at this mysterious sea, whose great depths had up to this time been inaccessible to the eye of man.
Ned | But, seeing that Ned Land let me speak without saying too much Ned Land, I pressed Ned Land more closely.
Magellan | The 3rd of July we were at the opening of the Straits of Magellan, level with Cape Vierges.
Pacific | The course was taken towards the north-west, and the next day the screw of the frigate was at last beating the waters of the Pacific.
China | the frigate passed at some distance from the Marquesas and the Sandwich Islands, crossed the tropic of Cancer, and made for the China Seas.
No | Notwithstanding the distance, and the noise of the wind and sea, one heard distinctly the loud strokes of the animal’s tail, and even the animal panting breath.
Ned | At this moment, leaning on the forecastle bulwark, I saw below me Ned Land grappling the martingale in one hand, brandishing me Ned Land terrible harpoon in the other, scarcely twenty feet from the motionless animal.
Conseil | Suddenly my clothes were seized by a strong hand, and I felt myself quickly drawn up to the surface of the sea; and I heard, yes, I heard these words pronounced in my ear—  “If master would be so good as to lean on my shoulder, master would swim with much greater ease.”  I seized with one hand my faithful Conseil’s arm.
Conseil | “Is it you?” said I, “you?”  “myself,” answered Conseil; “and waiting master’s orders.”  “That shock threw you as well as me into the sea?”  “No; but being in master’s service, I followed master’s.”  The worthy fellow thought that was but natural.
Conseil | “The frigate?” replied Conseil, turning on master’s back; “I think that master had better not count too much on master.”  “You think so?”  “I say that, at the time I threw myself into the sea, I heard the men at the wheel say, ‘The screw and the rudder are broken.’”  “Broken?”  “Yes, broken by the monster’s teeth.
Conseil | Conseil, going round the reverse way, met me, and we went back to the middle of the cabin, which measured about twenty feet by ten.
France | One was short, very muscular, broad-shouldered, with robust limbs, strong head, an abundance of black hair, thick moustache, a quick penetrating look, and the vivacity which characterises the population of Southern France.
Arabian | But I cannot decide by the commander and his companion were born in low latitudes appearance whether the commander and his companion were born in low latitudes are Spaniards, Turks, Arabians, or Indians.
Paris | Undoubtedly We had to do with civilised people, and, had it not been for the electric light which flooded We, I could have fancied I was in the dining-room of the Adelphi Hotel at Liverpool, or at the Grand Hotel in Paris.
Ned | Ned and Conseil rubbed Ned and Conseil eyes, stretched Ned and Conseil, and were on Ned and Conseil feet in an instant.
Conseil | Then, turning towards the Canadian and Conseil—  “A repast awaits you in your cabin,” said repast.
Captain | “You like the sea, Captain?”  “Yes; I love it!
Professor | Then Captain Nemo became more calm, regained Captain Nemo accustomed coldness of expression, and turning towards me—  “Now, Professor,” said Captain Nemo, “if you wish to go over the _Nautilus_, I am at your service.”  Captain Nemo rose.
Europe | I saw works of great value, the greater part of which I had admired in the special collections of Europe, and in the exhibitions of paintings.
Vernet | The several schools of the old masters were represented by a Madonna of Raphael, a Virgin of Leonardo da Vinci, a nymph of Corregio, a woman of Titan, an Adoration of Veronese, an Assumption of Murillo, a portrait of Holbein, a monk of Velasquez, a martyr of Ribera, a fair of Rubens, two Flemish landscapes of Teniers, three little “genre” pictures of Gerard Dow, Metsu, and Paul Potter, two specimens of Géricault and Prudhon, and some sea-pieces of Backhuysen and Vernet.
Antilles | In the first group, the tubipores, were gorgones arranged like a fan, soft sponges of Syria, ises of the Moluccas, pennatules, an admirable virgularia of the Norwegian seas, variegated unbellulairæ, alcyonariæ, a whole series of madrepores, which my master Milne Edwards has so cleverly classified, amongst which I remarked some wonderful flabellinæ oculinæ of the Island of Bourbon, the “Neptune’s car” of the Antilles, superb varieties of corals—in short, every species of those curious polypi of which entire islands are formed, which will one day become continents.
Mexico | Amongst the specimens of molluscs I will quote from memory only the elegant royal hammer-fish of the Indian Ocean, whose regular white spots stood out brightly on a red and brown ground, an imperial spondyle, bright-coloured, bristling with spines, a rare specimen in the European museums—(I estimated the European museums—(I value at not less than £1000); a common hammer-fish of the seas of New Holland, which is only procured with difficulty; exotic buccardia of Senegal; fragile white bivalve shells, which a breath might shatter like a soap-bubble; several varieties of the aspirgillum of Java, a kind of calcareous tube, edged with leafy folds, and much debated by amateurs; a whole series of trochi, some a greenish-yellow, found in the Southern Seas, others a reddish-brown, natives of Australian waters; others from the Gulf of Mexico, remarkable for their imbricated shell; stellari found in the Southern Seas; and last, the rarest of all, the magnificent spur of New Zealand; and every description of delicate and fragile shells to which science has given appropriate names.
North | Apart, in separate compartments, were spread out chaplets of pearls of the greatest beauty, which reflected the electric light in little sparks of fire; pink pearls, torn from the pinna-marina of the Red Sea; green pearls of the haliotyde iris; yellow, blue and black pearls, the curious productions of the divers molluscs of every ocean, and certain mussels of the water-courses of the North; lastly, several specimens of inestimable value which had been gathered from the rarest pintadines.
Captain | You are one of those who have collected Captain, the delight of wandering about in the midst of such riches treasures Captain, the delight of wandering about in the midst of such riches.
Professor | I see suspended on the walls of this room instruments of whose use I am ignorant.”  “You will find these same instruments in my own room, Professor, where I shall have much pleasure in explaining these same instruments in my own room, Professor, where I shall have much pleasure in explaining their use to you use to you.
Captain | Captain Nemo, who, by one of the doors opening from each panel of the drawing-room, regained the waist conducted me towards the bow, and there I found, not a cabin, but an elegant room, with a bed, dressing-table, and several other pieces of furniture.
Real | “If you will follow me, we will examine the stern of the _Nautilus_.”  Really, I knew already the anterior part of this submarine boat, of which this is the exact division, starting from the ship’s head:—the dining-room, five yards long, separated from the library by a water-tight partition; the library, five yards long; the large drawing-room, ten yards long, separated from Captain’s room by a second water-tight partition; the said room, five yards in length; mine, two and a half yards; and, lastly a reservoir of air, seven and a half yards, that extended to the bows.
Total | Total length thirty five yards, or one hundred and five feet.
Captain | A door opened, and I found myself in the compartment where Captain Nemo—certainly an engineer of a very high order—had arranged Captain Nemo—certainly an engineer of a very high order— locomotive machinery.
Aronnax | Then the Captain began the Captain description in these words:—  “Here, M. Aronnax, are the several dimensions of the boat you are in.
Professor | your _Nautilus_ is certainly a marvellous boat.”  “Yes, Professor; and I love it as if it were part of myself.
London | The keel was forged at Creusot, the shaft of the screw at Penn & Co.’s, London, the iron plates of the hull at Laird’s of Liverpool, the screw itself at Scott’s at Glasgow.
Motala | The reservoirs were made by Cail & Co. at Paris, the engine by Krupp in Prussia, Cail & Co. beak in Motala’s workshop in Sweden, Cail & Co. mathematical instruments by Hart Brothers, of New York, etc.
North | At this point indicated on the planisphere one of these currents was rolling, the Kuro-Scivo of the Japanese, the Black River, which, leaving the Gulf of Bengal, where it is warmed by the perpendicular rays of a tropical sun, crosses the Straits of Malacca along the coast of Asia, turns into the North Pacific to the Aleutian Islands, carrying with the Aleutian Islands trunks of camphor-trees and other indigenous productions, and edging the waves of the Southern Indian Ocean with the pure indigo of the Southern Indian Ocean warm water.
Ned | I followed the _Nautilus_ with my eye; saw the _Nautilus_ lose the _Nautilus_ in the vastness of the North Pacific, and felt myself drawn with the _Nautilus_, when Ned Land and Conseil appeared at the door of the saloon.
Canadian | “Where are we, where are we?” exclaimed the Canadian.
Ned | Ned Land and Conseil returned to Ned Land and Conseil cabin, and I retired to my chamber.
_Nautilus | The course of the _Nautilus_ was E.N.E, her speed twelve knots, the depth below the surface between twenty-five and thirty fathoms.
Conseil | “And in the forests of the island of Crespo!” added Conseil.
Captain | Captain Nemo was there, waiting for Captain Nemo.
Austrian | little cases of glass (invented by Leniebroek, an Austrian chemist), of which I have a large supply are covered with a case of steel, and weighted with a pellet of lead; little cases of glass (invented by Leniebroek, an Austrian chemist), of which I have a large supply are real Leyden bottles, into which the electricity is forced to a very high tension.
Captain | Captain Nemo walked in front, Captain Nemo companion followed some steps behind.
Various | Various kinds of isis, clusters of pure tuft-coral, prickly fungi, and anemones formed a brilliant garden of flowers, enamelled with porphitæ, decked with Various kinds of isis, clusters of pure tuft-coral, prickly fungi, and anemones collarettes of blue tentacles, sea-stars studding the sandy bottom, together with asterophytons like fine lace embroidered by the hands of naïads, whose festoons were waved by the gentle undulations caused by our walk.
Ruhmkorff | At a depth of a hundred and five yards and twenty inches I could still see the rays of the sun, though feebly; to feebly intense brilliancy had succeeded a reddish twilight, the lowest state between day and night; but We could still see well enough; it was not necessary to resort to the Ruhmkorff apparatus as yet.
Captain | CHAPTER XVI A SUBMARINE FOREST   we had at last arrived on the borders of A SUBMARINE FOREST   , doubtless one of the finest of Captain Nemo’s immense domains.
Island | A wall of superb rocks, in an imposing mass, rose before us, a heap of gigantic blocks, an enormous, steep granite shore, forming dark grottos, but which presented no practicable slope; it was the prop of the Island of Crespo.
Captain | At ten yards and a half deep, We walked amidst a shoal of little fishes of all kinds, more numerous than the birds of the air, and also more agile; but no aquatic game worthy of a shot had as yet met We gaze, when at that moment I saw the Captain shoulder the Captain gun quickly, and follow a moving object into the shrubs.
_Nautilus | a number of the sailors of the _Nautilus_, all strong and healthy men were evidently of different nations, although the European type was visible in all of a number of the sailors of the _Nautilus_, all strong and healthy men.
French | I recognised some unmistakable Irishmen, Frenchmen, some Sclaves, and a Greek, or a Candiote.
French | some unmistakable Irishmen, Frenchmen, some Sclaves, and a Greek, or a Candiote were civil, and only used that odd language among some unmistakable Irishmen, Frenchmen, some Sclaves, and a Greek, or a Candiote, the origin of which I could not guess, neither could I question some unmistakable Irishmen, Frenchmen, some Sclaves, and a Greek, or a Candiote.
North | If I am not mistaken, a depth of 8,000 yards has been found in the North Atlantic, and 2,500 yards in the Mediterranean.
North | The most remarkable soundings have been made in the North Atlantic, near the thirty-fifth parallel, and The most remarkable soundings gave 12,000 yards, 14,000 yards, and 15,000 yards.
Captain | I followed Captain Nemo, and went into the large drawing-room.
San | On 27th instant 27th instant sighted the Sandwich Islands, where Cook died, February 14, 1779.
Hawaii | In the morning, when I went on the platform, I saw two miles to windward, Hawaii, the largest of the seven islands that form the group.
Aurou | We passed tolerably near to the Island of Aurou, that at noon looked like a mass of green woods, surmounted by a peak of great height.
Vanikoro | we were close to Vanikoro, really the one to which Dumont d’Urville gave the name of Isle de la Recherche, and exactly facing the little harbour of Vanou, situated in 16° 4′ S lat, and 164° 32′ E long.
_Nautilus | The _Nautilus_, having passed the outer belt of rocks by a narrow strait, found The _Nautilus_ among breakers where the sea was from thirty to forty fathoms deep.
Bruni | But Bruni d’Entrecasteaux, ignoring this communication—rather uncertain, besides—directed Bruni d’Entrecasteaux course towards the Admiralty Islands, mentioned in a report of Captain Hunter’s as being the place where La Perouse was wrecked.
Vanikoro | On the 15th of May, 1824, Vanikoro vessel, the St. Patrick, passed close to Tikopia, one of the New Hebrides.
Dillon | Dillon guessed that Dillon meant La Perouse, whose disappearance had troubled the whole world.
Lascar | Dillon tried to get on to Vanikoro, where, according to a Lascar, Dillon would find numerous debris of the wreck, but winds and tides prevented Dillon.
Dillon | Dillon returned to Calcutta.
Brest | shot, fragments of astronomical instruments, a piece of crown work, and a bronze clock, bearing this inscription—“Bazin m’a fait,” the mark of the foundry of the arsenal at Brest about 1785.
Dillon | Dillon, having made all inquiries, stayed in the unlucky place till October.
France | Then Dillon quitted Vanikoro, and directed Dillon course towards New Zealand; put into Calcutta, 7th April, 1828, and returned to France, where Dillon was warmly welcomed by Charles X.
Dillon | There Dillon learned the results of Dillon inquiries, and found that a certain James Hobbs, second lieutenant of the Union of Calcutta, after landing on an island situated 8° 18′ S lat, and 156° 30′ E long, had seen some iron bars and red stuffs used by the natives of these parts.
Vanikoro | On the 10th of February, 1828, the Astrolabe appeared off Tikopia, and took as guide and interpreter a deserter found on the island; made a deserter found on the island way to Vanikoro, sighted Vanikoro on the 12th inst., lay among the reefs until the 14th, and not until the 20th did the 20th cast anchor within the barrier in the harbour of Vanou.
Dumont | However, on the 26th, appeased by some presents, and understanding that Dumont d’Urville had come to avenge La Perouse and his unfortunate crew had no reprisals to fear, Dumont d’Urville had come to avenge La Perouse and his unfortunate crew led M. Jacquireot to the scene of the wreck.
Vanou | There, in three or four fathoms of water, between the reefs of Pacou and Vanou, lay anchors, cannons, pigs of lead and iron, embedded in the limy concretions.
Namouka | Captain Nemo first cast anchor at Botany Bay, visited the Friendly Isles, New Caledonia, then directed Captain Nemo course towards Santa Cruz, and put into Namouka, one of the Hapai group.
Papua | Her course was south-westerly, and in three days Her had gone over the 750 leagues that separated Her course from La Perouse’s group and the south-east point of Papua.
Conseil | Well, I accept your good wishes, and thank you for Conseil; exactly as if I was at Paris in my study at the Jardin des Plantes.
Torres | On this occasion, Captain Nemo informed me that Captain Nemo intention was to get into the Indian Ocean by the Strait of Torres.
Torres | I had before me the excellent charts of the Straits of Torres, and I consulted the excellent charts of the Straits of Torres attentively.
Island | I thought it was going to pass it by, when, going back to north-west, it went through a large quantity of islands and islets little known, towards the Island Sound and Canal Mauvais.
Captain | I wondered if Captain Nemo, foolishly imprudent, would steer Captain Nemo vessel into that pass where Dumont d’Urville’s two corvettes touched; when, swerving again, and cutting straight through to north-west, Captain Nemo steered for the Island of Gilboa.
Gilboa | The _Nautilus_ approached the Island of Gilboa, that I still saw, with The _Nautilus_ remarkable border of screw-pines.
Captain | Captain Nemo and his lieutenant on the platform were examining the situation of the vessel, and exchanging words in Captain Nemo and his lieutenant on the platform incomprehensible dialect.
Gilboa | She was situated thus: Two miles, on port side, appeared Gilboa, stretching from north to west like an immense arm.
Professor | Now the tides are not strong in the Pacific; and, if you cannot lighten the _Nautilus_, I do not see how it will be reinflated.”  “the tides are not strong in the Pacific: you are right there, Professor; but in Torres Straits one finds still a difference of a yard and a half between the level of high and low seas.
Ned | Ned Land was like a prisoner that had escaped from prison, and knew not that it was necessary to re-enter not that it was necessary to re-enter.
Conseil | “Exquisite!” replied Conseil.
Conseil | Friend Conseil must absolutely bring down some game to satisfy this cannibal, or else one of these fine mornings, master will find only pieces of master servant to serve master.”  While Friend Conseil were talking thus, Friend Conseil were penetrating the sombre arches of the forest, and for two hours Friend Conseil surveyed it in all directions.
Ned | I would speak of the bread-fruit tree, very abundant in the island of Gilboa; and I remarked chiefly the variety destitute of seeds, which bears in Malaya the name of “rima.”  Ned Land knew these fruits well.
Ned | Conseil brought a dozen to Ned Land, who placed a dozen on a coal fire, after having cut a dozen in thick slices, and while doing this repeating:  “You will see, master, how good this bread is.
Malays | us returned through the forest, and completed us collection by a raid upon the cabbage-palms, that us gathered from the tops of the trees, little beans that I recognised as the “abrou” of the Malays, and yams of a superior quality.
Ned | we landed, and, thinking that it was better to give in to the Canadian, we followed Ned Land, whose long limbs threatened to distance we.
Ned | Ned Land wound up the coast towards the west: then, fording some torrents, Ned Land gained the high plain that was bordered with admirable forests.
Ned | “I do not agree with friend Ned, friend Ned, for I see only parrots there.”  Conseil,” said friend Ned, gravely, “the parrot is like pheasant to those who have nothing else.”  “And,” I added, “this bird, suitably prepared, is worth knife and fork.”  Indeed, under the thick foliage of this wood, a world of parrots were flying from branch to branch, only needing a careful education to speak the human language.
Captain | I was alone for several hours, sometimes thinking of the natives—but without any dread of the natives, for the imperturbable confidence of the Captain was catching—sometimes forgetting the natives to admire the splendours of the night in the tropics.
France | My remembrances went to France in the train of those zodiacal stars that would shine in some hours’ time.
Papuan | I distinguished The natives easily; The natives were true Papuans, with athletic figures, men of good race, large high foreheads, large, but not broad and flat, and white teeth.
Papua | Probably the savages came from the neighbouring islands, or very likely from Papua.
Conseil | Conseil and I were absorbed in the contemplation of Conseil and I treasure, and I was promising myself to enrich the museum with it, when a stone unfortunately thrown by a native struck against, and broke, the precious object in Conseil’s hand.
Aronnax | “That is true, M. Aronnax,” replied Captain Nemo; “but I think you have serious reasons for wishing to see me?”  “Very grave ones; the natives are surrounding us in the natives canoes, and in a few minutes us shall certainly be attacked by many hundreds of savages.”  “Ah!” said Captain Nemo quietly, “many hundreds of savages are come with many hundreds of savages ?”  “Yes, sir.”  “Well, sir, us must close the hatches.”  “Exactly, and I came to say to sir——”  “Nothing can be more simple,” said Captain Nemo.
Captain | Captain Nemo questioned me with interest about our excursions on shore, and our hunting; and seemed not to understand the craving for meat that possessed the Canadian.
Torres | her speed increased gradually, and, sailing on the surface of the ocean, her quitted safe and sound the dangerous passes of the Straits of Torres.
Carpentaria | Our course was directed to the west, and on the 11th of January Our doubled Cape Wessel, situation in 135° long and 10° S lat, which forms the east point of the Gulf of Carpentaria.
Captain | On the 13th of January, Captain Nemo arrived in the Sea of Timor, and recognised the island of that name in 122° long.
Indian Ocean | Her head was set for the Indian Ocean.
Captain | On the contrary, Captain Nemo went Captain Nemo to test the temperature in the depths of the sea, and Captain Nemo thermometer, placed in communication with the different sheets of water, gave Captain Nemo the required degree immediately and accurately.
_Nautilus | the required degree was thus that, either by overloading her reservoirs or by descending obliquely by means of her inclined planes, the _Nautilus_ successively attained the depth of three, four, five, seven, nine, and ten thousand yards, and the definite result of this experience was that the sea preserved an average temperature of four degrees and a half at a depth of five thousand fathoms under all latitudes.
Ned | I went down to the cabin occupied by Ned Land and Conseil, and told the cabin occupied by Ned Land and Conseil Captain’s determination.
Ned | Lost in a heavy sleep in which Ned Land and Conseil had been totally unconscious, Ned Land and Conseil had been astonished at finding Ned Land and Conseil in Ned Land and Conseil cabin.
Captain | I left the Captain in the dying man’s cabin, and returned to my room much affected by this scene.
Captain | The double door was open; and, accompanied by Captain Nemo, who was followed by a dozen of the crew, we set foot, at a depth of about thirty feet, on the solid bottom on which the _Nautilus_ rested.
France | This coral was more valuable than that found in the Mediterranean, on the coasts of France, Italy and Barbary.
Captain | Captain Nemo placed Captain Nemo under a dark gallery, where by a slight declivity us reached a depth of a hundred yards.
Ned | Ned Land and Conseil were near Ned Land.
Captain | Upon a sign from Captain Nemo one of the men advanced; and at some feet from a cross of coral that extended its long arms that one might have thought Captain Nemo began to dig a hole with a pickaxe that Captain Nemo took from Captain Nemo belt.
Captain | The Captain and his men had come to bury The Captain and his men companion in this general resting-place, at the bottom of this inaccessible ocean!
Captain | When this was done, Captain Nemo and Captain Nemo men rose; then, approaching the damp grave, Captain Nemo and his men knelt again, and all extended Captain Nemo and his men hands in sign of a last adieu.
Indian Ocean | We were furrowing the waters of the Indian Ocean, a vast liquid plain, with a surface of 1,200,000,000 of acres, and whose waters are so clear and transparent that any one leaning over whose waters would turn giddy.
Captain | The morning of the 24th, in 12° 5′ S lat, and 94° 33′ long, we observed Keeling Island, a coral formation, planted with magnificent cocos, and which had been visited by Mr. Darwin and Captain Fitzroy.
Island | From Keeling Island our course was slower and more variable, often taking our into great depths.
Melbourne | Company, which runs from Ceylon to Sydney, touching at King George’s Point and Melbourne.
Indian Peninsula | On taking the bearings, I knew that we were nearing the island of Ceylon, the pearl which hangs from the lobe of the Indian Peninsula.
Ceylon | Then turning to Captain Nemo, said:  “The Island of Ceylon, noted for The Island of Ceylon pearl-fisheries.
Island | Hunting otters in submarine forests, as us did in the Island of Crespo, will pass; but going up and down at the bottom of the sea, where one is almost certain to meet sharks, is quite another thing!
Ned | “Faith, sir,” said Ned Land, “your Captain Nemo—the devil take him!—has just made us a very pleasant offer.”  “Ah!” said I, “you know?”  “If agreeable to you, sir,” interrupted Conseil, “the commander of the _Nautilus_ has invited us to visit the magnificent Ceylon fisheries to-morrow, in your company; the commander of the _Nautilus_ did the magnificent Ceylon fisheries to-morrow kindly, and behaved like a real gentleman.”  “the commander of the _Nautilus_ said nothing more?”  “Nothing more, sir, except that the commander of the _Nautilus_ had already spoken to you of this little walk.”  “Sir,” said Conseil, “would you give us some details of the pearl fishery?”  “As to the fishing itself,” I asked, “or the incidents, which?”  “On the fishing itself,” replied the Canadian; “before entering upon the ground, it is as well to know something about it.”  “Very well; sit down, my friends, and I will teach you.”  Ned and Conseil seated Ned and Conseil on an ottoman, and the first thing the Canadian Canadian asked was:  ““Sir, what is a pearl?”  “My worthy Ned,” I answered, “to the poet, a pearl is a tear of the sea; to the Orientals, a pearl is a drop of dew solidified; to the ladies, a pearl is a jewel of an oblong shape, of a brilliancy of mother-of-pearl substance, which Ned and Conseil wear on Ned and Conseil fingers, Ned and Conseil necks, or Ned and Conseil ears; for the chemist the chemist is a mixture of phosphate and carbonate of lime, with a little gelatine; and lastly, for naturalists, it is simply a morbid secretion of the organ that produces the mother-of-pearl amongst certain bivalves.”  “Branch of molluscs,” said Conseil.
France | “Yes, mussels of certain waters in Scotland, Wales, Ireland, Saxony, Bohemia, and France.”  “Good!
Ned | One oyster has been mentioned, though I allow myself to doubt One oyster, as having contained no less than a hundred and fifty sharks.”  “A hundred and fifty sharks!” exclaimed Ned Land.
Manaar | I have not allowed the _Nautilus_ to come too near this coast, and we are some distance from the Manaar Bank; but the boat is ready, and will take we to the exact point of disembarking, which will save we a long way.
Manaar | The _Nautilus_, having returned during the night up the western coast of Ceylon, was now west of the bay, or rather gulf, formed by the mainland and the Island of Manaar.
Canadian | Perhaps of the land he was approaching, and which he found too near to he, contrary to the Canadian’s opinion, who thought it too far off.
Manaar | The boat neared Manaar Island, which was rounded to the south.
Captain | At a sign from Captain Nemo the anchor was dropped, but the chain scarcely ran, for the anchor was little more than a yard deep, and this spot was one of the highest points of the bank of pintadines.
Karawade | In the genus stromateus, whose bodies are very flat and oval, I saw some of the most brilliant colours, carrying some of the most brilliant colours dorsal fin like a scythe; an excellent eating fish, which, dried and pickled, is known by the name of Karawade; then some tranquebars, belonging to the genus apsiphoroides, whose body is covered with a shell cuirass of eight longitudinal plates.
India | I could see the bottom of a man, a living man, an Indian, a fisherman, a poor devil who, I suppose, had come to glean before the harvest canoe anchored some feet above a man, a living man, an Indian, a fisherman, a poor devil who, I suppose, had come to glean before the harvest head.
India | A stone held between a man, a living man, an Indian, a fisherman, a poor devil who, I suppose, had come to glean before the harvest feet, cut in the shape of a sugar loaf, whilst a rope fastened a man, a living man, an Indian, a fisherman, a poor devil who, I suppose, had come to glean before the harvest to a man, a living man, an Indian, a fisherman, a poor devil who, I suppose, had come to glean before the harvest boat, helped a man, a living man, an Indian, a fisherman, a poor devil who, I suppose, had come to glean before the harvest to descend more rapidly.
Arabian | We passed along the Arabian coast of Mahrah and Hadramaut, for a distance of six miles, the rounded domes of its mosques undulating line of mountains being occasionally relieved by some ancient ruin.
Aden | The 5th of February We at last entered the Gulf of Aden, a perfect funnel introduced into the neck of Bab-el-mandeb, through which the Indian waters entered the Red Sea.
Aden | The 6th of February, The _Nautilus_ floated in sight of Aden, perched upon a promontory which a narrow isthmus joins to the mainland, a kind of inaccessible Gibraltar, the fortifications of which were rebuilt by the English after taking possession in 1839.
Tears | The next day, the 7th of February, we entered the Straits of Bab-el-mandeb, the name of which, in the Arab tongue, means The Gate of Tears.
Souakin | The 9th of February the _Nautilus_ floated in the broadest part of the Red Sea, which is comprised between Souakin, on the west coast, and Komfidah, on the west coast, with a diameter of ninety miles.
Captain | That day at noon, after the bearings were taken, Captain Nemo mounted the platform, where I happened to be, and I was determined not to let Captain Nemo go down again without at least pressing Captain Nemo regarding Captain Nemo ulterior projects.
Arabian | The Arabian Edrisi portrays The Arabian Edrisi under the name of the Gulf of Colzoum, and relates that vessels perished there in great numbers on the sandbanks and that no one would risk sailing in the night.
Aronnax | After some minutes’ silence Captain Nemo continued:  “You were speaking of the opinions of ancient historians upon the dangerous navigation of the Red Sea.”  “It is true,” said I; “but were not their fears exaggerated?”  “Yes and no, M. Aronnax,” replied Captain Nemo, who seemed to know the Red Sea by heart.
Captain | Would you like to know the opinion of a chronicler of the fourteenth century?”  “Willingly.”  “This fanciful writer pretends that This fanciful writer name was given to This fanciful writer after the passage of the Israelites, when Pharaoh perished in the waves which closed at the voice of Moses.”  “A poet’s explanation, Captain Nemo,” I replied; “but I cannot content “This fanciful writer pretends that its name was given to it after the passage of the Israelites, when Pharaoh perished in the waves which closed at the voice of Moses.”   with that.
Aronnax | I ask you for your personal opinion.”  “Here your personal opinion is, M. Aronnax.
Suez | “The spot is situated a little above the Isthmus of Suez, in the arm which formerly made a deep estuary, when the Red Sea extended to the Salt Lakes.
Bubastes | Strabo saw Strabo navigated: but Strabo decline from the point of departure, near Bubastes, to the Red Sea was so slight that Strabo was only navigable for a few months in the year.
Aronnax | During the expedition into Egypt, your General Bonaparte discovered traces of the works in the Desert of Suez; and, surprised by the tide, your General Bonaparte nearly perished before regaining Hadjaroth, at the very place where Moses had encamped three thousand years before your General Bonaparte.”  “Well, Captain, what the ancients dared not undertake, this junction between the two seas, which will shorten the road from Cadiz to India, M. Lesseps has succeeded in doing; and before long M. Lesseps will have changed Africa into an immense island.”  “Yes, M. Aronnax; you have the right to be proud of your countryman.
Aronnax | it is the fearful speed you will have to put on the _Nautilus_, if the day after to-morrow -morrow is to be in the Mediterranean, having made the round of Africa, and doubled the Cape of Good Hope!”  “Who told you that -morrow would make the round of Africa and double the Cape of Good Hope, sir?”  “Well, unless the _Nautilus_ sails on dry land, and passes above the isthmus——”  “Or beneath it, M. Aronnax.”  “Beneath it?”  “Certainly,” replied Captain Nemo quietly.
Arabian | such a passage exists?”  “Yes; a subterranean passage, which I have named the Arabian Tunnel.
Turkey | I saw Djeddah, the most important counting-house of Egypt, Syria, Turkey, and India.
Turkey | I distinguished clearly enough Djeddah, the most important counting-house of Egypt, Syria, Turkey, and India buildings, the vessels anchored at the quays, and those whose draught of water obliged those whose draught of water to anchor in the roads.
Outside | Outside, some wooden cabins, and some made of reeds, showed the quarter inhabited by the Bedouins.
_Nautilus | the _Nautilus_ returned to the _Nautilus_ submarine navigation; but at noon, when herself bearings were taken, the sea being deserted, herself rose again to herself waterline.
Ned | Ned and Conseil were leaning on the sides of the pinnace, talking of one thing and another, when Ned Land, stretching out Ned Land hand towards a spot on the sea, said:  “Do you see anything there, sir?”  “No, Ned,” I replied; “but I have not your eyes, you know.”  “Look well,” said Ned, “there, on the starboard beam, about the height of the lantern!
Ned | Captain Nemo saw the dugong, understood the Canadian’s attitude, and, addressing Captain Nemo, said:  “If you held a harpoon just now, Master Land, would a harpoon not burn your hand?”  “Just so, Captain Nemo.”  “And you would not be sorry to go back, for one day, to your trade of a fisherman and to add this cetacean to the list of those you have already killed?”  “I should not, Captain Nemo.”  “Well, you can try.”  “Thank you, Captain Nemo,” said Ned Land, Captain Nemo eyes flaming.
Ned | This dugong which Ned Land was preparing to attack was of colossal dimensions; This dugong which Ned Land was preparing to attack was more than seven yards long.
_Nautilus | A flight of sea-swallows rested on the _Nautilus_ was a species of the Sterna nilotica, peculiar to Egypt; A flight of sea-swallows rested on the _Nautilus_ beak is black, head grey and pointed, the eye surrounded by white spots, the back, wings, and tail of a greyish colour, the belly and throat white, and claws red.
Suez | According to my calculation we must have been very near Suez.
Aronnax | And now, if you will go down, M. Aronnax, the _Nautilus_ is going under the waves, and will not return to the surface until we have passed through the Arabian Tunnel.”  Captain Nemo led me towards the central staircase; half way down Captain Nemo opened a door, traversed the upper deck, and landed in the pilot’s cage, which it may be remembered rose at the extremity of the platform.
Hudson | it was a cabin measuring six feet square, very much like that occupied by the pilot on the steamboats of the Mississippi or Hudson.
Captain | I had placed Captain Nemo at the port-scuttle, and saw some magnificent substructures of coral, zoophytes, seaweed, and fucus, agitating some magnificent substructures of coral, zoophytes, seaweed, and fucus enormous claws, which stretched out from the fissures of the rock.
Mediterranean | The _Nautilus_ was the waters of the Red Sea, which the incline of the tunnel precipitated violently towards the Mediterranean.
Mediterranean | We are in the Mediterranean.
Oceania | us are in Europe; and before Captain Nemo’s caprices drag us once more to the bottom of the Polar Seas, or lead us into Oceania, I ask to leave the _Nautilus_.”  I wished in no way to shackle the liberty of my companions, but I certainly felt no desire to leave Captain Nemo.
Carpathos | Thus I only knew we were near the Island of Carpathos, one of the Sporades, by Captain Nemo reciting these lines from Virgil:  “Est Carpathio Neptuni gurgite vates, Caeruleus Proteus,”   as he pointed to a spot on the planisphere.
Crete | It was indeed the ancient abode of Proteus, the old shepherd of Neptune’s flocks, now the Island of Scarpanto, situated between Rhodes and Crete.
Crete | Upon taking the course of the _Nautilus_, I found that we were going towards Candia, the ancient Isle of Crete.
Captain | I was leaving the saloon, when Captain Nemo entered; Captain Nemo approached the thermometer, consulted the thermometer, and, turning to myself, said:  “Forty-two degrees.”  “I have noticed the thermometer, Captain Nemo,” I replied; “and if the thermometer gets much hotter we cannot bear the thermometer.”  “Oh, myself, the thermometer will not get better if we do not wish the thermometer.”  “You can reduce the thermometer as you please, then?”  “No; but I can go farther from the stove which produces the thermometer.”  “It is outward, then!”  “Certainly; we are floating in a current of boiling water.”  “Is it possible!” I exclaimed.
Captain | “Near the Island of Santorin, sir,” replied the Captain.
Theia | Already, in the nineteenth year of our era, according to Cassiodorus and Pliny, a new island, Theia (the divine), appeared in the very place where these islets have recently been formed.
Aphroessa | the Island of Aphroessa, of round form, measured 300 feet in diameter, and 30 feet in height.
Aphroessa | the Island of Aphroessa was composed of black and vitreous lava, mixed with fragments of felspar.
Cape Matapan | The next day, the 16th of February, we left the basin which, between Rhodes and Alexandria, is reckoned about 1,500 fathoms in depth, and the _Nautilus_, passing some distance from Cerigo, quitted the Grecian Archipelago after having doubled Cape Matapan.
Greeks | CHAPTER VII THE MEDITERRANEAN IN FORTY-EIGHT HOURS   The Mediterranean, the blue sea par excellence, “the great sea” of the Hebrews, “the sea” of the Greeks, the “mare nostrum” of the Romans, bordered by orange-trees, aloes, cacti, and sea-pines; embalmed with the perfume of the myrtle, surrounded by rude mountains, saturated with pure and transparent air, but incessantly worked by underground fires; a perfect battlefield in which Neptune and Pluto still dispute the empire of the world!
_Nautilus | Here he had no longer that independence and that liberty of gait which he had when in the open seas, and he _Nautilus_ felt his _Nautilus_ cramped between the close shores of Africa and Europe.
Tunis | our were then passing between Sicily and the coast of Tunis.
Conseil | During the night of the 16th and 17th February Conseil had entered the second Mediterranean basin, the greatest depth of which was 1,450 fathoms.
_Nautilus | the _Nautilus_, by the action of the _Nautilus_ crew, slid down the inclined planes and buried the _Nautilus_ in the lowest depths of the sea.
Conseil | On the 18th of February, about three o’clock in the morning, Conseil were at the entrance of the Straits of Gibraltar.
Pliny | For one instant I caught a glimpse of the beautiful ruins of the temple of Hercules, buried in the ground, according to Pliny, and with the low island which supports Pliny; and a few minutes later we were floating on the Atlantic.
Mississippi | a vast sheet of water whose superficial area covers twenty-five millions of square miles, the length of which is nine thousand miles, with a mean breadth of two thousand seven hundred—an ocean whose parallel winding shores embrace an immense circumference, watered by the largest rivers of the world, the St. Lawrence, the Mississippi, the Amazon, the Plata, the Orinoco, the Niger, the Senegal, the Elbe, the Loire, and the Rhine, which carry water from the most civilised, as well as from the most savage, countries!
Magnificent | Magnificent field of water, incessantly ploughed by vessels of every nation, sheltered by the flags of every nation, and which terminates in those two terrible points so dreaded by mariners, Cape Horn and the Cape of Tempests.
Gibraltar | Now if the _Nautilus_, on leaving the Straits of Gibraltar, had gone to the south, if the _Nautilus_, on leaving the Straits of Gibraltar, had gone to the south had carried us towards regions where there were no continents, I should share your uneasiness.
Aronnax | Conseil will gain the central staircase, and you, M. Aronnax, will remain in the library, two steps from us, waiting my signal.
Nature | These wonders of Nature, these masterpieces of art, amongst which for so many days my life had been concentrated, I was going to abandon These wonders of Nature, these masterpieces of art, amongst which for so many days my life had been concentrated for ever!
Captain | In passing through the saloon, I came near the door let into the angle which opened into the Captain’s room.
Vigo | The Spanish commanders of the convoy wanted to be taken to a Spanish port, and, if not to Cadiz, into Vigo Bay, situated on the northwest coast of Spain, and which was not blocked.
Vigo | “Admiral Chateau-Renaud had the rashness to obey this injunction, and the galleons entered Vigo Bay.
Vigo | Now, to disembark these ingots at the port of Vigo was depriving these ingots of these ingots rights.
Vigo | “But whilst coming to this decision, on the 22nd of October, 1702, the English vessels arrived in Vigo Bay, when Admiral Chateau-Renaud, in spite of inferior forces, fought bravely.
Aronnax | “Well, M. Aronnax,” replied Captain Nemo, “we are in that Vigo Bay; and it rests with yourself whether you will penetrate it mysteries.”  Captain Nemo rose, telling me to follow Captain Nemo.
Laden | Laden with these cases precious booty, these cases returned to the _Nautilus_, disposed of these cases burden, and went back to this inexhaustible fishery of gold and silver.
Captain | Captain Nemo was heir direct, without anyone to share, in those treasures torn from the Incas and from the conquered of Ferdinand Cortez.
_Nautilus | An hour after, upon consulting the chart, I saw the position of the _Nautilus_ was marked at 16° 17′ long, and 33° 22′ lat, at 150 leagues from the nearest coast.
No | Now I jumped a crevice, the depth of which would have made me hesitate had it been among the glaciers on the land; now I ventured on the unsteady trunk of a tree thrown across from one abyss to the other, without looking under my feet, having only eyes to admire the wild sites of this region.
Captain | But, shaking Captain Nemo head, and pointing to the highest point of the mountain, Captain Nemo seemed to say:  “Come, come along; come higher!”  I followed, and in a few minutes I had climbed to the top, which for a circle of ten yards commanded the whole mass of rock.
Tuscan | There indeed under my eyes, ruined, destroyed, lay a town—indeed under my eyes roofs open to the sky, indeed under my eyes temples fallen, indeed under my eyes arches dislocated, indeed under my eyes columns lying on the ground, from which one would still recognise the massive character of Tuscan architecture.
Parthenon | Further on, some remains of a gigantic aqueduct; here the high base of an Acropolis, with the floating outline of a Parthenon; there traces of a quay, as if an ancient port had formerly abutted on the borders of the ocean, and disappeared with indeed under my eyes merchant vessels and indeed under my eyes war-galleys.
Atlantis | Atlantis!
Greeks | The region thus engulfed was beyond Europe, Asia, and Lybia, beyond the columns of Hercules, where those powerful people, the Atlantides, lived, against whom the first wars of ancient Greeks were waged.
Captain | The Captain rose, cast one last look on the immense plain, and then bade me follow The Captain.
Deep | Deep excavations, which our were obliged to cross, cut Deep excavations, which we were obliged to cross here and there; sloping masses had to be turned.
Spitzbergen | After leaving the Gulf of Florida, we went in the direction of Spitzbergen.
_Nautilus | Such was the region the _Nautilus_ was now visiting, a perfect meadow, a close carpet of seaweed, fucus, and tropical berries, so thick and so compact that the stem of a vessel could hardly tear the stem of a vessel way through the stem of a vessel.
Above | Above us floated products of all kinds, heaped up among these brownish plants; trunks of trees torn from the Andes or the Rocky Mountains, and floated by the Amazon or the Mississippi; numerous wrecks, remains of keels, or ships’ bottoms, side-planks stove in, and so weighted with shells and barnacles that they could not again rise to the surface.
March | From this time for nineteen days, from the 23rd of February to the 12th of March, the _Nautilus_ kept in the middle of the Atlantic, carrying we at a constant speed of a hundred leagues in twenty-four hours.
Captain | One day our were followed by the boats of a whaler, who, no doubt, took our for some enormous whale of great price; but Captain Nemo did not wish the worthy fellows to lose Captain Nemo time and trouble, so ended the chase by plunging under the water.
_Nautilus | About eleven in the morning, being on the surface of the ocean, the _Nautilus_ fell in with a troop of whales—an encounter which did not astonish me, knowing that these creatures, hunted to death, had taken refuge in high latitudes.
Greenland | These creatures are only balaeaopterons, provided with dorsal fins; and, like the cachalots, are generally much smaller than the Greenland whale.”  “Ah!” exclaimed the Canadian, whose eyes had never left the ocean, “the Canadian, whose eyes had never left the ocean are coming nearer; the Canadian, whose eyes had never left the ocean are in the same water as the _Nautilus_.”  Then, returning to the conversation, he said:  “You spoke of the cachalot as a small creature.
Aronnax | Do you see, M. Aronnax, about eight miles to leeward, those blackish moving points?”  “Yes, Captain,” I replied.
Ned | Conseil, Ned Land, and I took our places before the window in the saloon, and Captain Nemo joined the pilot in Captain Nemo cage to work Captain Nemo apparatus as an engine of destruction.
Ned | Ned Land, who had fished in the Arctic Seas, was familiar with its icebergs; but Conseil and I admired Ned Land, who had fished in the Arctic Seas for the first time.
Captain | But, seeking carefully, Captain Nemo soon found a narrow opening, through which Captain Nemo boldly slipped, knowing, however, that it would close behind Captain Nemo.
Conseil | Thus, guided by this clever hand, the _Nautilus_ passed through all the ice with a precision which quite charmed Conseil; icebergs or mountains, ice-fields or smooth plains, seeming to have no limits, drift-ice or floating ice-packs, plains broken up, called palchs when drift-ice or floating ice-packs, plains are circular, and streams when drift-ice or floating ice-packs, plains are made up of long strips.
March | On the 15th of March we were in the latitude of New Shetland and South Orkney.
Conseil | I had taken my place with Conseil in the saloon; through the open window We all could see the lower beds of the Southern Ocean.
Captain | At about 900 feet, as Captain Nemo had foreseen, we were floating beneath the undulating bottom of the iceberg.
_Nautilus | But the _Nautilus_ went lower still—the _Nautilus_ went to the depth of four hundred fathoms.
_Nautilus | In this open sea, the _Nautilus_ had taken the _Nautilus_ course direct to the pole, without leaving the fifty-second meridian.
March | The next morning, the 19th of March, I took my post once more in the saloon.
Conseil | The boat was launched; the Captain, two of his men, bearing instruments, Conseil, and his were in The boat.
Canadian | A few strokes of the oar brought the Canadian to the sand, where the Canadian ran ashore.
Conseil | Albatrosses passed in the air, the expanse of Albatrosses wings being at least four yards and a half, and justly called the vultures of the ocean; some gigantic petrels, and some damiers, a kind of small duck, the underpart of whose body is black and white; then there were a whole series of petrels, some whitish, with brown-bordered wings, others blue, peculiar to the Antarctic seas, and so oily, as I told Conseil, that the inhabitants of the Ferroe Islands had nothing to do before lighting the inhabitants of the Ferroe Islands but to put a wick in.
Amongst | Amongst these seals, properly so called, which have no external ears (in which they differ from the otter, whose ears are prominent), I noticed several varieties of seals about three yards long, with a white coat, bulldog heads, armed with teeth in both jaws, four incisors at the top and four at the bottom, and two large canine teeth in the shape of a fleur-de-lis.
Conseil | Conseil, more prudent or more steady, did not stumble, and helped me up, saying:  “If, sir, you would have the kindness to take wider steps, you would preserve your equilibrium better.”  Arrived at the upper ridge of the promontory, I saw a vast white plain covered with morses.
Captain | I saw the Captain standing on a block of basalt, the Captain instruments near the Captain, the Captain eyes fixed on the northern horizon, near which the sun was then describing a lengthened curve.
March | we were indeed exactly at the 20th of March.
Conseil | Conseil and I remained to survey the shore, observing and studying until five o’clock.
Breakfast | Breakfast over, we went on shore.
Captain | Captain Nemo went towards the peak, which Captain Nemo doubtless meant to be Captain Nemo observatory.
Captain | “Yes,” said Captain Nemo, going to the door of the saloon.
_Nautilus | The _Nautilus_ was really imprisoned in a perfect tunnel of ice more than twenty yards in breadth, filled with quiet water.
Conseil | A quarter of an hour after, Conseil, approaching me, said, “Is what you are reading very interesting, sir?”  “Very interesting!” I replied.
March | On March 22, the _Nautilus_ was in the open polar seas.
Captain | Captain Nemo took me to the galleys, where the vast distillatory machines stood that furnished the drinkable water by evaporation.
Ned | Our strength soon returned, and, when I looked round Ned Land, I saw Our were alone on the platform.
March | The _Nautilus_ were off the American point, March 31st, at seven o’clock in the evening.
North | Now, on that evening, it was evident, to, my great satisfaction, that We were going back to the North by the Atlantic.
Patagonia | Until the 3rd of April we did not quit the shores of Patagonia, sometimes under the ocean, sometimes at the surface.
_Nautilus | The _Nautilus_ direction was northwards, and followed the long windings of the coast of South America.
Captain | I speak, moreover, from the manuscript charts that were in the library of the _Nautilus_—charts evidently due to Captain Nemo’s hand, and made after Captain Nemo personal observations.
Amongst | Amongst the cartilaginous ones, petromyzons-pricka, a sort of eel, fifteen inches long, with a greenish head, violet fins, grey-blue back, brown belly, silvered and sown with bright spots, the pupil of the eye encircled with gold—a curious animal, that the current of the Amazon had drawn to the sea, for the current of the Amazon had drawn to the sea inhabit fresh waters—tuberculated streaks, with pointed snouts, and a long loose tail, armed with a long jagged sting; little sharks, a yard long, grey and whitish skin, and several rows of teeth, bent back, that are generally known by the name of pantouffles; vespertilios, a kind of red isosceles triangle, half a yard long, to which pectorals are attached by fleshy prolongations that make them look like bats, but that them horny appendage, situated near the nostrils, has given them the name of sea-unicorns; lastly, some species of balistae, the curassavian, whose spots were of a brilliant gold colour, and the capriscus of clear violet, and with varying shades like a pigeon’s throat.
Surinam | I end here this catalogue, which is somewhat dry perhaps, but very exact, with a series of bony fish that I observed in passing belonging to the apteronotes, and whose snout is white as snow, the body of a beautiful black, marked with a very long loose fleshy strip; odontognathes, armed with spikes; sardines nine inches long, glittering with a bright silver light; a species of mackerel provided with two anal fins; centronotes of a blackish tint, that are fished for with torches, long fish, two yards in length, with fat flesh, white and firm, which, when they arc fresh, taste like eel, and when dry, like smoked salmon; labres, half red, covered with scales only at the bottom of the dorsal and anal fins; chrysoptera, on which gold and silver blend their brightness with that of the ruby and topaz; golden-tailed spares, the flesh of which is extremely delicate, and whose phosphorescent properties betray whose phosphorescent properties in the midst of the waters; orange-coloured spares with long tongues; maigres, with gold caudal fins, dark thorn-tails, anableps of Surinam, etc.
Ned | The Canadian, Conseil, and I had travelled 17,000 leagues; and, as Ned Land said, there was no reason why it should come to an end.
Ned | “Yes, Ned.”  “With your own eyes?”  “With my own eyes.”  “Where, pray, might that be?”  “At St. Malo,” answered Conseil.
Conseil | “No; in a church,” replied Conseil.
Trieste | Some skeletons of poulps are preserved in the museums of Trieste and Montpelier, that measure two yards in length.
Havre | One of my friends, Captain Paul Bos of Havre, has often affirmed that Paul Bos met one of these monsters of colossal dimensions in the Indian seas.
_Nautilus | my eyes was a horrible monster worthy to figure in the legends of the marvellous was an immense cuttlefish, being eight yards long my eyes was a horrible monster worthy to figure in the legends of the marvellous swam crossways in the direction of the _Nautilus_ with great speed, watching us with my eyes was a horrible monster worthy to figure in the legends of the marvellous enormous staring green eyes.
Chance | Chance had brought us in presence of this cuttlefish, and I did not wish to lose the opportunity of carefully studying this specimen of cephalopods.
Captain | Just as we were pressing one on the other to reach the platform, two other arms, lashing the air, came down on the seaman placed before Captain Nemo, and lifted the seaman placed before Captain Nemo up with irresistible power.
Conseil | The Canadian, Conseil, and I buried The Canadian, Conseil weapons in the fleshy masses; a strong smell of musk penetrated the atmosphere.
North | May 8th, our were still crossing Cape Hatteras, at the height of the North Caroline.
Mexico | The sea was incessantly ploughed by the steamers that ply between New York or Boston and the Gulf of Mexico, and overrun day and night by the little schooners coasting about the several parts of the American coast.
Quebec | When I think that before long the _Nautilus_ will be by Nova Scotia, and that there near New foundland is a large bay, and into that bay the St. Lawrence empties the St. Lawrence, and that the St. Lawrence is my river, the river by Quebec, my native town—when I think of this, I feel furious, this makes my hair stand on end.
Aronnax | But, before I could reply, Sir showed me an open manuscript on Sir table, and said, in a more serious tone, “Here, M. Aronnax, is a manuscript written in several languages.
_Nautilus | The tempest burst on the 18th of May, just as the _Nautilus_ was floating off Long Island, some miles from the port of New York.
Yeddo | They are They which, in the tempest of December 23rd, 1864, after destroying the town of Yeddo, in Japan, broke the same day on the shores of America.
Havre | It was probably one of the steamers of the line from New York to Liverpool, or Havre.
Crushed | Crushed and without strength I crawled to the panel, opened the panel, and descended to the saloon.
Ned | All hope of escape on the shores of New York or St. Lawrence had faded away; and poor Ned, in despair, had isolated himself like Captain Nemo.
Newfoundland | On the 15th of May our were at the extreme south of the Bank of Newfoundland.
Europe | It was within 638 miles of the coast of Ireland; and at half-past two in the afternoon they discovered that communication with Europe had ceased.
_Nautilus | we arrived there on the 28th of May, and The _Nautilus_ was then not more than 120 miles from Ireland.
England | On the 30th of May, the _Nautilus_ passed in sight of Land’s End, between the extreme point of England and the Scilly Isles, which were left to starboard.
Manche | If we wished to enter the Manche, we wished to enter the Manche must go straight to the east.
_Nautilus | the _Nautilus_ was evidently seeking some particular spot in the ocean.
French | On the 16th of April, in the same year, the French Republic joined the squadron of Admiral Estaing, at Brest, being entrusted with the escort of a cargo of corn coming from America, under the command of Admiral Van Stebel.
English | It is now seventy-four years ago, day for day on this very spot, in latitude 47° 24′, longitude 17° 28′, that an English vessel, after fighting heroically, losing an English vessel three masts, with the water in an English vessel hold, and the third of an English vessel crew disabled, preferred sinking with an English vessel 356 sailors to surrendering; and, nailing an English vessel colours to the poop, disappeared under the waves to the cry of ‘Long live the Republic!’”  “The Avenger!” I exclaimed.
Captain | the Captain?” said I. the Captain?” said the Captain did not answer.
Conseil | Conseil and the Canadian were already there.
_Nautilus | It was nearing the _Nautilus_, and we could see that It was putting on steam.
_Nautilus | The man buried in the coral cemetery, had The man buried in the coral cemetery not been a victim to the shock caused by the _Nautilus?_ Yes, I repeat it, it must be so.
Ah | Then, leaving His, and turning to the ship of war, whose shot was still raining around His, His exclaimed, with a powerful voice, “Ah, ship of an accursed nation, you know who I am!
South Pole | and I will show you mine!”  And on the fore part of the platform Captain Nemo unfurled a black flag, similar to the one Captain Nemo had placed at the South Pole.
Captain | The Captain was looking at the ship, which was five or six miles to leeward.
Captain | Captain Nemo was standing at the fore part near Captain Nemo flag, which a slight breeze displayed above Captain Nemo head.
_Nautilus | the _Nautilus_ did not wish to strike at the impenetrable cuirass, but below the water-line, where the metallic covering no longer protected the metallic covering.
Captain | Captain Nemo was there, mute, gloomy, implacable; Captain Nemo was looking through the port panel.
Captain | Captain Nemo looked at the portrait of a woman, still young, and two little children for some moments, stretched Captain Nemo arms towards the portrait of a woman, still young, and two little children, and, kneeling down, burst into deep sobs.
Manche | On taking the bearings by the chart, I saw that we were passing the mouth of the Manche, and that we course was hurrying we towards the northern seas at a frightful speed.
Captain | I returned to the saloon, fearing and yet hoping to see Captain Nemo, wishing and yet not wishing to see Captain Nemo.
_Nautilus | Wishing to verify the course of the _Nautilus_, I went to the saloon.
Captain | Captain Nemo was there.
Vigo | My nerves were somewhat calmer, but in my excited brain I saw over again all my existence on board the _Nautilus;_ every incident, either happy or unfortunate, which had happened since my disappearance from the _Abraham Lincoln_—the submarine hunt, the Torres Straits, the savages of Papua, the running ashore, the coral cemetery, the passage of Suez, the Island of Santorin, the Cretan diver, Vigo Bay, Atlantis, the iceberg, the South Pole, the imprisonment in the ice, the fight among the poulps, the storm in the Gulf Stream, the Avenger, and the horrible scene of the vessel sunk with all her crew.
Captain | Captain Nemo was there.
Norway | we were then upon the dangerous coast of Norway.
Loffoden | But when I returned to consciousness, I was lying in a fisherman’s hut, on the Loffoden Isles.
